
### 10 Basic CRUD commands in Redis

<p>Redis allows atomic operations on the datstructures stored, like appending to a string; incrementing the value in a hash; pushing an element to a list; computing set intersection, union and difference; or getting the member with highest ranking in a sorted set. The following section will provide documentation to perform basic CRUD commands with string values</p>

### 1. Set Operation
<p>Command Pattern: <code>SET key value</code></p>
<p>This sets a key to hold the string value. If key already holds a value, it is overwritten, regardless of its type. </p>

<p>In this example, the string value <i>"John Doe"</i> is mapped to the key, <i>name</i></p>

```execute
SET name "John Doe"
```
<p>The key can be retrieved using the GET operation which is describe later.</p>

```execute
GET name
```
```output
"John Doe"
```
</code></pre>

### 2. Get value which is mapped to Key
<p>Command Pattern: <code>GET key</code></p>
<p>Get the value of key. If the key does not exist the special value nil is returned. An error is returned if the value stored at key is not a string, because GET only handles string values</p>

```execute
SET mykey "Hello"
```
```execute
GET mykey
```
```output
"Hello"
```

### 3. Set Mulitple Key Values
<p>Command Pattern: <code>MSET key value [key value ...]</code></p>
<p>Unlike SET, MSET can set multiple keys to their respective values. MSET replaces existing values with new values, just as regular SET. MSET is atomic, so all given keys are set at once. It is not possible for clients to see that some of the keys were updated while others are unchanged.</p>

<p>In this example, multiple keys are mapped to their respective values</p>

```execute
MSET key1 "Hello" key2 "World"
```
```execute
GET key1
```
```output
"Hello"
```

### 4. Get Values which are mapped to multiple keys
<p>Command Pattern: <code>MGET key [key ...]</code></p>
<p>Returns the values of all specified keys. For every key that does not hold a string value or does not exist, the special value nil is returned. Because of this, the operation never fails.</p>

```execute
SET key1 "Hello"
```
```execute
SET key2 "World"
```
```execute
MGET key1 key2 nonexisting
```
```output
1) "Hello"
2) "World"
3) (nil)
```

### 5. Delete keys
<p>Command Pattern: <code>DEL key [key ...]</code></p>
<p>Removes the specified keys. A key is ignored if it does not exist.</p>

```execute
SET key1 "Hello"
```
```execute
SET key2 "World"
```
```execute
DEL key1 key2 key3
```
```output
(integer) 2
```

### 6. Set fields in hash stored as key
</p>Command Patten: <code>HSET key field value [field value ...]</code></p>
<p>Sets field in the hash stored at key to value. If key does not exist, a new key holding a hash is created. If field already exists in the hash, it is overwritten.</p>
<p>Note: As of Redis 4.0.0, HSET is variadic and allows for multiple field/value pairs.</p>

```execute
HSET myhash field1 "Hello"
```
```execute
HGET myhash field1
```
```output
"Hello"
```

### 7. Get field value of hash stored as key
<p>Command pattern: <code>HGET key field</code></p>
<p>The fields set in hash stored at key can be retrieved using HGET</p>

```execute
HSET myhash field1 "foo"
```
```execute
HGET myhash field1
```
```output
"foo"
```
```execute
HGET myhash field2
```
```output
(nil)
``` 

### 8. Get Multiple field value of hash stored as key
<p>Command Pattern: <code>HMGET key field [field ...]</code></p>
<p>Returns the values associated with the specified fields in the hash stored at key. For every field that does not exist in the hash, a nil value is returned. Because non-existing keys are treated as empty hashes, running HMGET against a non-existing key will return a list of nil values.</p>

```execute
HSET myhash field1 "Hello"
```
```execute
HSET myhash field2 "World"
```
```execute
HMGET myhash field1 field2 nofield
```
```output
1) "Hello"
2) "World"
3) (nil)
```


### 9. Delete fields from hash stored as keys
<p>Command Pattern: <code>HDEL key field [field ...]</code></p>
<p>Removes the specified fields from the hash stored at key. Specified fields that do not exist within this hash are ignored. If key does not exist, it is treated as an empty hash and this command returns 0.</p>

```execute
HSET myhash field1 "foo"
```
```execute
HDEL myhash field1
```
```output
(integer) 1
```
```execute
HDEL myhash field2
```
```output
(integer) 0
```

### 10. Delete all keys in database
<p>Command Pattern: <code>FLUSHDB [ASYNC]</code></p>
<p>Deletes all the keys of the currently selected DB. This command never fails. However, this command is disabled by default as it is considered to be risky.</p>

```copycommand
FLUSHDB
```
```output
OK
```

<b>Note</b>: Exit from the interactive shell of the pod before proceeding to the next section
