
### A Sample Redis Application

<p>For convenience sake, a sample python application demonstrating the use of a redis database is available in <a href="https://github.com/operator-playground-io/Redis-Sample-Python-Application.git">this repository</a>. It consists of the application code as well as Kubernetes Manifest files, which can be deployed using <a href="https://skaffold.dev/">Skaffold</a></p>

<h3>1. Clone Repository</h3>

Clone the repository by executing this command.

```execute
git clone https://github.com/operator-playground-io/Redis-Sample-Python-Application.git
```

Navigate into the cloned repository

```execute
cd Redis-Sample-Python-Application
```

<h3>2. Connecting with Redis using Python</h3>
<p>Python makes use of the <a href="https://pypi.org/project/redis/">redis library</a> (Version 3.5.3 for this example), which provides the necessary functions to connect and execute commands with the database. The connection requires the <b>hostname</b>, <b>port</b> and <b>password</b>, which must be supplied to the redis connection client in the application. The code can be found inside <i>code/app.py</i> and looks as such</p>

```copycommand
$ redis.Redis(host=host, password=password, port=port)
```

The application is built to accept the redis credentials from the commandline itself when it is run, as shown below. This command can be found in the `code/Dockerfile`

```copycommand
$ python app.py <host> <port> <password>
```

<h3>3. Provide redis credentials to image</h3>
The redis credentials are accepted as environment variables by the docker image, to connect with the redis database. Alter the `deployment.yaml` file to include the correct redis credentials. For convenience sake, execute the command given below which sets the appropriate redis credential for the application image as environment variables.

```execute
cat <<EOF > k8s/deployment.yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: credential-manager-deployment
  labels:
    app: credential-manager
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: credential-manager
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: credential-manager
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: credential-manager
        image: image-credential-manager
        env:
        - name: HOST
          value: my-release-redis-master
        - name: PORT
          value: 6379
        - name: PASSWORD
          value: $REDIS_PASSWORD
        ports:
        - containerPort: 5000
EOF
```

<h3>4. Run the Application</h3>

<a href="https://skaffold.dev/">Skaffold</a> handles the workflow for building, pushing and deploying this application. The image for the application shall be built locally. The `deployment.yaml` and `service.yaml` manifests, shall be deployed as well.

Skaffold requires the local image registry which must be set, with the command given below

```execute
skaffold config set default-repo localhost:5000
```

Skaffold is now ready for use. Executing the command given below, builds the image and pushes it to the local image registry. Consecutively, the deployment and service are created from the manifest files present in `k8s` folder. 

```execute
skaffold run
```

The application can be accessed using the link below, 

http://##DNS.ip##:30007
